"
 
This project aims to create an Android smartphone application whose primary function is to inform a user if an image contains food. There are two parts to the implementation of this project. The first part is the client-side Android application which the user will interact with. The second part is a server side based artificial intelligence that will perform the heavy lifting task of analyzing images sent to it from the Android application. Once the artificial intelligence has analyzed an image it will determine whether the image contains food or not. This result, as well as a confidence rating, will be sent back to the application and displayed to the user. For image selection, the user will be provided with two options. The user may take a photo using their smartphone camera or the user may select an image that is already stored on their smartphone’s internal storage. The user interface of the application will make the process of choosing an image for analysis as simple as possible no matter which method a user picks to capture an image for analysis. The secondary functions of this project are to provide a gallery feature on the application that displays to the user all previously analyzed images along with the results and confidence ratings associated with each image and an option to display to the user the percentage of analyzed pictures that have been identified as containing food as well as the percentage of those which do not. One of the paramount goals of this project is to implement the above stated features with an interface that any user can just pick up and start using with little to no issues. This is important as if a user has a difficult time using the application they will most likely never use it again no matter how accurate it is in the end. "
